---
title: I fucking love Bob's Burgers
pubDate: 'July 29 2013'
---

<p>Last night I saw a <a href="https://chill.com/PhilipSwift/the-bubble">documentary about Celebration, Florida</a>. It mentioned how there is some rumor about it being a secret place for swinging couples, which reminded me of <a href="http://www.hulu.com/watch/470575">an episode of Bob&#39;s Burgers</a>. So, of course I needed to re-watch that episode to see how much it is actually related to that town (it isn&#39;t, really). But before I could do that, I fell down a Wikipedia rabbit hole because I wanted to remember what <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H._Jon_Benjamin">H. Jon Benjamin</a> looks like.</p>
<p><iframe allowfullscreen="" frameborder="0" height="270" mozallowfullscreen="" scrolling="no" src="http://www.hulu.com/embed.html?eid=fvcqx2a9_kdfxbvwow4x_w" webkitallowfullscreen="" width="480"></iframe></p>
<p>And the rabbit hole was pretty awesome. Cause it&#39;s just a ton of comedians related to all manner of Adult Swim shows. I was never super into Adult Swim. I&#39;m also not super into animated shows on Fox, which is why it took months of cajoling by my friend before I finally watched Bob&#39;s Burgers (and then quickly became obsessed with it).</p>
<p>It&#39;s a solid show. It sometimes makes me laugh so hard I nearly fall over and have to pause the computer. It&#39;s cute. But, in the rabbit hole, I kept bumping into the weird comedy shows my sister was obsessed with, even as a pretty young kid. Why was she watching Dr. Katz anyway?!</p>
<!--break-->
<p>I haven&#39;t been analyzing why I like this show. It&#39;s just fucking entertaining. But now that I think about it, I think at least part of me must appreciate it as some sort of connection with my sister. Maybe even some oddly guilt ridden connection since I only grudgingly watched Home Movies with her and would totally have changed the channel to watch some syndicated Forever Knight. It&#39;s just striking to see stuff she really enjoyed (and hey, I enjoyed The Critic too at least!) coming up again and again and again throughout the assorted Wikipedia pages. And then to see <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucy,_Daughter_of_the_Devil">a series I didn&#39;t know of</a> and try to figure out the timing--might she have seen it and we just didn&#39;t get to talk about it? What&#39;d she think?</p>
<p>I am heavy into contemplative mode, still trying to dig out from seeing &quot;Stories We Tell,&quot; (overwrought blog <strike>post coming soon</strike> <a href="/blog/life-memory">now available</a>). It&#39;s just nice to feel a thread of connection that sort of revealed itself to me and isn&#39;t forced in some like &quot;I must experience the things she liked as an homage&quot; sort of way. Also, I just fucking love the family dynamic on that show. They yell and make fun of each other and throw shit and and sing and dance in embarrassing ways and they&#39;re a little fucking batty, but they clearly love and support one another. Guess that sounds familiar too.</p>


